1.13. /opt

  This directory is reserved for all the software and add-on packages that
are not part of the default installation. For example, StarOffice, Kylix,
Netscape Communicator and WordPerfect packages are normally found here. To
comply with the FSSTND, all third party applications should be installed in
this directory. Any package to be installed here must locate its static files
(ie. extra fonts, clipart, database files) must locate its static files in a
separate /opt/'package' or /opt/'provider' directory tree (similar to the way
in which Windows will install new software to its own directory tree C:\
Windows\Progam Files\"Program Name"), where 'package' is a name that
describes the software package and 'provider' is the provider's LANANA
registered name.

  Although most distributions neglect to create the directories /opt/bin, /
opt/doc, /opt/include, /opt/info, /opt/lib, and /opt/man they are reserved
for local system administrator use. Packages may provide "front-end" files
intended to be placed in (by linking or copying) these reserved directories
by the system administrator, but must function normally in the absence of
these reserved directories. Programs to be invoked by users are located in
the directory /opt/'package'/bin. If the package includes UNIX manual pages,
they are located in /opt/'package'/man and the same substructure as /usr/
share/man must be used. Package files that are variable must be installed in
/var/opt. Host-specific configuration files are installed in /etc/opt.

  Under no circumstances are other package files to exist outside the /opt, /
var/opt, and /etc/opt hierarchies except for those package files that must
reside in specific locations within the filesystem tree in order to function
properly. For example, device lock files in /var/lock and devices in /dev.
Distributions may install software in /opt, but must not modify or delete
software installed by the local system administrator without the assent of
the local system administrator.

  The use of /opt for add-on software is a well-established practice in the
UNIX community. The System V Application Binary Interface [AT&T 1990], based
on the System V Interface Definition (Third Edition) and the Intel Binary
Compatibility Standard v. 2 (iBCS2) provides for an /opt structure very
similar to the one defined here.

  Generally, all data required to support a package on a system must be
present within /opt/'package', including files intended to be copied into /
etc/opt/'package' and /var/opt/'package' as well as reserved directories in /
opt. The minor restrictions on distributions using /opt are necessary because
conflicts are possible between distribution installed and locally installed
software, especially in the case of fixed pathnames found in some binary
software.

  The structure of the directories below /opt/'provider' is left up to the
packager of the software, though it is recommended that packages are
installed in /opt/'provider'/'package' and follow a similar structure to the
guidelines for /opt/package. A valid reason for diverging from this structure
is for support packages which may have files installed in /opt/ 'provider'/
lib or /opt/'provider'/bin.

Source Page: https://www.tldp.org/LDP/Linux-Filesystem-Hierarchy/html/opt.html
# lfhopt.txt EOF
